									   CSc 3320: Systems Programming
										    Spring 2021
									 Final/Project: Total points = 100


									       THIS FINAL IS OPTIONAL
 Assigned: 			  					  23th  Apr 2021, Friday   Noon
Submission Deadline (if attempting):   2nd May 2021, Sunday, 11.59 PM
(No extensions. If your submission is not received by this time then it will NOT be accepted.)

Submission instructions:
Create a Google doc for your submission.
Start your responses from page 2 of the document and copy these instructions on page 1. 
Fill in your name, campus ID and panther # in the fields provided. If this information is missing TWO POINTS WILL BE DEDUCTED.
Keep this page 1 intact. If this submissions instructions page is missing in your submission TWO POINTS WILL BE DEDUCTED.
Start your responses to each QUESTION on a new page. 
If you are being asked to write code copy the code into a separate txt file and submit that as well. The code should be executable. E.g. if asked for a C script then provide myfile.c so that we can execute that script. In your answer to the specific question, provide the steps on how to execute your file (like a ReadMe).
If you are being asked to test code or run specific commands or scripts, provide the evidence of your outputs through a screenshot and/or screen video-recordings and copy the same into the document.
Upon completion, download a .PDF version of the google doc document and submit the same along with all the supplementary files (videos, pictures, scripts etc).


Full Name: 

Campus ID: 

Panther #: 




All programs have to be well commented. Non commented programs will receive 0 points. Comments have to be easily comprehensible and concise.


[30pts] Copy the contents of this document into a text file. Make sure the spacings and indentations are included. 
Write a C program that reads the text file and then outputs 
-- the number of characters (space is to be considered a character), 
-- number of words (a word is any sequence of non-white-space characters), -- number of lines. 
Write a makefile as well. 

Repeat question 1, but write a shell script instead of C. Makefile not necessary. [30pts] 

[40pts] Describe (briefly in 1-2 sentences) the following unix utility functions and provide 1 example of it’s usage. You can refer to Chapter 13 in the Unix textbook. You must NOT provide the same example from the textbook:
perror()
open()
read()
write()
lseek()
close()
monitor()
chown()
fchown()
chmod()
fchmod()
link()
unlink()
getpid()
getppid()
fork()
exit()
wait()
alarm()
signal()
kill()
pipe()
scp()  (also referred to as secure copy)

